hello internet this is a video about my
macbook
versus my custom built pc right now i am
in
my office when i'm in new york city i
edit in two places
usually in my office i have two
computers i have this setup of two apple
inch displays with the macbook plugged
in behind it
and then i have my pc when i'm not here
editing i have my
macbook at my apartment and i get work
done that way as well so i am using my
macbook for the majority of the time
but i haven't truly put my pc to the
test yet
and that's what this video is all about
but a quick run through the macbook has
a one terabyte
ssd which is super helpful when i'm
editing my current projects i can
put all of the footage on my computer
and i don't have to worry about
external hard drives because that's when
things get a little slowed down
3.1 gigahertz intel i7 core processor my
pc has a gtx
1080 and a ryzen 7 processor 32 gigs
of ram and a one terabyte ssd with an
additional
four terabytes of storage so they're not
flash storage
but it's good if i just want to load
some footage off
on the pc a beautiful lg ultraride
monitor
a logitech mx master 2s in white
how sick does that white look and a fire
rose mechanical keyboard
i just ordered this on amazon the colors
were super
cute i love the white finish but it's
it's pretty loud
so four or five months ago austin evans
helped build this 2700
editing machine hey guys
[Applause]
i wanted to compare how does premiere
work on
a machine of a pc versus macbook because
when you're editing
with adobe products you're not utilizing
all of the power that your macbook has
to offer
if you're editing and something like
final cut 10 although
i appreciate speed i also appreciate the
fact that
premiere is better than final cut just
kidding it is subjective
what are your needs do you use photoshop
lightroom or do you just need a speedy
editing
software if you're new to editing final
cut 10 will actually probably be
simpler and easier to use and if you use
apple products
it will be faster that's why i now have
a pc
to see how things go with this is it
quicker i don't know because i've had
this
for several months i haven't edited
anything on it i've
literally just been doing extreme web
browsing
the things that we will explore today
number one export
times pc versus macbook number two how
does it handle
4k footage if you guys have seen the
last
video maybe it didn't seem like a lot
but it is a lot it was shot in 4k
which is something that i normally don't
do and there's a lot of moving parts
different stories i was trying to tell
so i'm gonna edit half of that video on
my pc
half of that video on my mac and then
the general
differences usually creative types use
apple products
[Music]
so i got a new hard drive a g drive
one terabyte up to 136
megabytes per second basically all of my
hard drives
that i use when my footage just isn't on
my computer or i copy over old footage
to
hard drives they're all formatted for
the mac
so this is going to be my permanent one
terabyte
mac to pc pc to mac file transfer
hard drive google drive is not fast
enough i'm not gonna upload and download
100 gigs of footage
just to edit a video on a different
machine so i'm just dedicating one hard
drive
for the back and forth
so i have the footage over on the pc now
it's time
to get editing
and what is so amazing about this huge
monitor i guess this is kind of a
lg curved display review as well is
my timeline can span this entire
line which is bigger than on my 27 inch
display look at that look how nice that
is and i can
enlarge these icons to very big
thumbnails so it's easy to find things
i like this
[Music]
[Applause]
well yesterday edited on the pc
today it's time to edit on the mac when
videos comprise of
many days of footage and a lot of
different concepts it requires more than
one day of editing so we're going to get
it today
i can barely hold up this camera it
worked out for the first time in a long
time yesterday
and i'm dying
[Music]
yes i'm done probably this has been
five seconds for you guys but it's
actually been hours since we last
chatted
i finished up the video this is the
final timeline looks good and the
playback
is fantastic so this is not just 4k
footage it's playing at half of the
quality
it's 4k footage with a color grade on
top of it just via an adjustment layer
um and my macbook is handling it
very well actually so it's time
to export this guy so we're gonna do the
h.264 youtube 4k preset
export all right um i guess i will see
you guys in
40 minutes okay so we have the same
exact export settings
and export right off the back
the estimation is 24 minutes instead of
45. so i'm sure it'll jump
up a little bit like the mac did but
right out the gate we're looking then
less than half of the time and here we
go
okay while we wait for those videos to
export let's answer some questions from
you guys via twitter you guys
legitimately have the
best questions and before that i want to
remind you guys that i made a skillshare
class how to vlog you know it's one
thing to promote skillshare but then to
actually
set aside the time to make a class and
it's helping you guys i've heard so much
cool feedback
i love it it's so exciting to hear my
how to vlog series
takes you from what camera you should
use to how to film how to build a story
and then how to edit and publish on
youtube and it's only
30 minutes i wanted to make it as
less intimidating as possible and
skillshare is hooking it up for the
first
500 people who click the link in the
description below
you are going to get your first two
months of skillshare
for only 99 cents if you're not familiar
with skillshare it is a online
learning community with over 17 000
classes
in design photography videography
entrepreneurship marketing the sky's the
limit
the premium membership gives you
unlimited access to
all of those classes and if you get the
annual membership it is less than
ten dollars a month so check out my
skillshare link in the description below
and let me know what you guys think
of my class how to vlog okay so let's
get
into your questions kent the homie
what's a childhood hobby you want to get
back into guitar
uh guitar was my life at one point and i
sold
off all of the gear to buy photo video
gear
and i think it's time to buy back some
guitar gear and get back into it
roberto what's the coolest piece of tech
you own
right now it might not be the coolest
but it has changed my life the most
this past year and that is the airpods
they are always in my ears i'm always
listening to music listening to a
podcast switching
to calls with people they're always in
my ears super versatile super easy to
use
do you have a plan to travel soon and
where i
just spent a month and a half not new
york i was on the west coast
and other different places so i am so
excited back to be in new york i love
new york new york is my home
i love it dearly with that said i'll
probably get the travel bug
sooner than later i want to go to europe
i want to go to places like paris and
barcelona and berlin
germany hopefully it'll happen soon can
you describe a time when you are working
on a project and you realize you
leveled up as a creator i would say
every time i finished a creative spaces
tv
video that's that's when i felt proud
and i was like
wow i didn't think i was going to be
able to do this when i started the
project
but every episode that i finished i was
like high five sarah
you did it that was one of the most
challenging things that i've done
and it's the first series that i started
the first legitimate thing that i think
gave
me credibility as a filmmaker and you
know i brought it through
several seasons and it was so fun to do
but yeah i think it not only gave me
credibility
but it just told some amazing stories
that's what i'm passionate about is
shedding light on the creative process
whether it's mine or other people and
that was the start of that journey
through that creative spaces tv series
but it was hard it
it pushed me to the limit but thank you
guys so much for asking questions
usually i ask on twitter so you can
follow me
on twitter at sarah deichi and i think
these videos should be close to being
exported now let's go check up on them
and we're done wow
so the pc took 20 minutes
the macbook finished at one hour and
three minutes wow so before i dive into
some of the mac verse pc quirks that
kind of
everyone talks about let's dive in and
really
ask ourselves but why was the pc
so much quicker than the mac i think
this debate is
very emotional a lot of the times like
why why why why
first we have to address something in
adobe premiere
where you can find it in the project
settings you just go
down to video rendering and playback
so premiere uses something called the
mercury
playback engine and you can have one of
two technologies helping you out with
gpu processing
it is either kuda kuda reminds me of
gouda like the cheese
or opencl opencl is what you're going to
see
when editing in premiere on a mac and
cuda is what you're going to see
when you're editing on a pc usually
cuda is a gpu processing technology
actually created by nvidia themselves so
because the graphics card i'm using is
the nvidia
gtx 1080 i can seize the day
with cuda and then opencl is a different
technology that can be used
for multiple different graphics cards
but
cuda is specific to an nvidia graphics
card when it comes to video playback in
premiere or
rendering the files for it to be
exported
that work can either fall on the cpu or
the gpu so
the gpu does certain things like
rendering effects like blur
or maybe if you put luts on your video
or any type of color grading
usually that's going to be rendered by
the gpu and how much ram
you have on your computer is what can
accelerate
this gpu processing so the fact that i
have an nvidia card
that utilizes the cuda technology that
is specific
to the nvidia card and i have double the
ram in the pc that i'm using
well i think that's the reason why it's
so much quicker now if you want to talk
about
optimization on the macbook in terms of
using
all of the goodness of it that's when
final cut 10
comes into the equation apple makes
final cut
apple makes mac computers so they're
able to make that
software and hardware marriage just
beautiful i was actually able to make a
video comparison with final cut
and a macbook versus premiere in a
macbook and final cut
just destroyed in terms of rendering
times that's because
final cut is optimized for
a mac computer i know that was super
technical but hopefully that helps
and explains why and it's not just an
emotional conversation of this is why
mac suck and pc sucks honestly it comes
down to
that software and hardware relationship
what does that look like and the
technology behind that
but also what are your preferences what
do you like as a human
for me i love the magic mouse i love
working on my macbook i'm quick on it
i'm not
really used to this logitech mouse it
just seems too thick so i'm not as quick
on it but
that's something that i can get used to
on the pc
also there's no video previews on a mac
you just press a space bar
when you're looking at videos in finder
and it pops up you're able to scroll
through
press the space bar again and you move
on with your life you can't do that on
pc you got to double click the video i
film a lot on my phone on my iphone so
having airdrop to easily send those two
three clips that i needed for
my video straight to my macbook is so
much easier
than to upload it to google drive and
download it on my pc
a little quick thing about the pc the
windows button is so annoying
it's very like where's option i want
option not that windows button
this video that i edited was in 4k so
when it came
to going through the footage in premiere
i used the jkl
shortcuts a lot for speeding up and
slowing down
and i'll watch things in like two times
speed so i'm constantly changing the
speeds of video to
try to hear what i'm saying and make my
in and out points super quick
i was able to do that with less lag on
my pc as well
as actually record myself editing using
obs
so that i could show you some of those
editing clips in
this video so the pc was actually a
little bit better when it came to
playback
and multitasking because of that more
ram and that gpu
stuff what i talked about well i
definitely think i have said enough
hopefully this shed some light on the pc
versus
mac thing and maybe you became more
informed or maybe you were slightly
entertained
hopefully you didn't fall asleep on that
last talking bit that was a lot
i love that my custom built pc is in
full
swing creating mode now i pointed to a
lot of different videos in this video so
everything that you might be curious
about is going to be
in the description below make sure you
like this video guys if you like it
like if you're a pc user like if you're
a mac user we can all be friendly around
here leave a comment and
make sure to hit that subscribe button
for new videos every single
week also make sure to check out that
skillshare link the first 500 people
two months of skillshare for only 99
cents shout out to skillshare for
sponsoring
this video and until next time guys
stay peachy okay bye
[Music]
you